Categorization of Building Data in the Digital Documentation of Heritage Buildings

The Documentation Process

The documentation process goes through the following steps:
•	Data capture
•	Data Interpretation (modelling/ analysis/ simulation/ visualization)
•	Design and decision making
•	Conservation /construction /retrofitting
•	Facility management /operation /maintenance
The Documentation Data itself can be divided into four categories: archaeological and historical data, geometry, pathology, and performance data.

Stakeholders

Each heritage building has different stakeholders with varying relationships to the different data categories mentioned before. This relationship may vary form Full Interest to Basic and No Interest e.g. while the owners and architects may have a full interest in historic, geometry, pathology and performance data, Museums only have a full interest in Historic data, while possessing a basic interest in geometry and none in pathology and performance.

Archaeological and Historic Data

Archaeological and Historic data may contain past drawings, historic records, historic texts, archaeological findings, historic photographs, oral histories and various multimedia.

Geometrical Data

Various tools including Manual surveys, photogeometry and laser scanning may be used to collect geometrical data. All these methods have their own benefits and downfalls i.e. while manual surveys are a cost effective option for smaller projects, in bigger projects not is it time consuming but also inaccurate. Laser scanning while accurate, is extremely expensive and not easily available and while photogeometry is an effective tool for the mapping of a building’s exterior, it not only fails to map interior spaces effectively but also is not mathematically accurate.

Pathological Data

This includes both Material and Structural Pathology.

Performance Data

Performance data is often measured in real time. It includes energy and thermal mapping, moisture levels, lighting and visuals, acoustics, systems, furniture and equipment, indoor air quality, user behavior, function, accessibility as well as safety and security.

Integration of Various Data Types

As the mentioned data is usually conducted and utilized by different stakeholders, an isolation of information often takes place. Digital Data Collection methodologies can prove to be helpful in bridging this gap.
Depending on the scale, complexity, accessibility, significance, condition, structural integrity, budget and document objectives the exact methodology of data collection may vary.

Refrenced Research Paper: Khalil, Ahmed, et al. “Categorisation of Building Data in the Digital Documentation of Heritage Buildings.” Applied Geomatics, vol. 13, no. 1, 1 June 2020, pp. 29–54, https://doi.org/10.1007/s12518-020-00322-7.




